1. Basic Git Workflow
Objective: Learn the basics of Git, including initializing a repository, adding files, making commits, and pushing to a remote repository.

Scenario:
Create a simple "Hello World" program (in any language).
Initialize a Git repository.
Make a few commits as you modify the project.
Push the changes to GitHub.
Steps:
Initialize Git Repository:
git init
Create a Hello World file (e.g.helloworld.java).
import java.io.*;
public class helloworld
System.out.println("helloworld")
Add and commit changes:
git add helloworld.java
git commit -m "Initial"
Connect to a remote repository:
git remote add origin https://github.com/Sumanth65/helloworld.git
Push changes to GitHub:
git push -u origin master 

2. Branching and Merging
Objective: Understand how to create branches, switch between them, and merge branches.

Scenario:
Create a project with a main branch.
Add a new feature on a separate branch.
Merge the feature branch into main and resolve any merge conflicts.

Steps:
Create and switch to a new branch:
git checkout -b feature
Add new feature (e.g.feature.java):
print("This is a new feature!")
Commit the changes:
git add feature.java
git commit -m "Add new feature"
Switch back to the master branch:
git checkout master
Merge the feature branch:
git merge feature
Resolve any conflicts (if they arise):
Edit conflicting files and then commit the resolution
git add <conflicted-file>
git commit -m "Resolve merge conflict"

3. Collaborative Workflow
Objective: Learn to collaborate on projects using Git, including cloning repositories, creating pull requests, and conducting code reviews.

Scenario:
Simulate a team environment.
Clone a repository.
Create a branch, make some changes, push the changes, and open a pull request.
Have someone else review and merge the pull request.

Steps:
Clone the repository:

git clone https://github.com/Sumanth65/portfolio.git
Create and switch to a new branch:
git checkout -b update-history
Make changes (e.g update History.txt):
Add some new information to History.txt
git add History.txt
git commit -m "Update HISTORY"
Push the branch:
git push origin update-history
Create a pull request on GitHub.
Review and merge the pull request.

4. Reverting Changes
Objective: Learn how to undo changes in Git using git revert, git reset, and git checkout.
Scenario:
Make changes to a project and commit them.
Simulate a situation where a change needs to be undone.


Make and commit changes:
git add file helloworld.java
git commit -m "add file 1"
Revert the last commit:
git revert HEAD
Reset to a previous state (discard commits):
git reset --hard 5e8b483  ---> this is commit id 
git reset --soft 5e8b483 ----> A soft reset in Git moves the HEAD to a previous commit while keeping all changes in the staging area, allowing you to recommit them.

5. Using Git with GitHub Pages
Objective: Practice deploying a simple website using GitHub Pages.
Scenario:
Create a static website (e.g., index.html).
Host it on GitHub Pages.
Learn to push changes and see them reflected live.

Create an HTML page (index.html):
Push to GitHub and deploy:
Ensure your repository is named git@github.com:Sumanth65/portfolio.git
Push changes:
git add index.html
git push origin master
Visit your website:https://github.com/Sumanth65/portfolio.git

6. Working with Git Tags
Objective: Understand how to use tags in Git for marking releases.

Scenario:
Tag specific commits as different versions (e.g., v1.0, v1.1).
Practice pushing tags to a remote repository.

Steps:
To create a tag :
git tag v1.0
next to add the anomated tag:
git tag -a v1.1 -m "Release version 1.1"
Push the all Tags to the remote repository:
git push origin --tags

7. Stashing Changes
Objective: Learn how to temporarily save changes using git stash and apply them later.
Scenario:
Simulate switching branches with uncommitted changes.
Use git stash to save your work and apply it later.

Steps:
Make changes to your project but don't commit them.
Stash the changes:
git stash
Switch branches and work on something else:
git checkout another-branch
Apply the stashed changes back:
git checkout master
git stash apply --> recent changes recent repository
stash pop ---> apply & remove 
stash  to save also  the untracked files  
stash -u file name

8. Exploring Git History
Objective: Learn to explore the commit history using git log and git diff.
Scenario:
Explore the commit history and changes over time.
Steps:
View the commit history:
git log
See the differences between commits:
git diff <commit1> <commit2>


9. Git Hooks
Objective: Learn to automate tasks using Git hooks.
Scenario:
Set up a pre-commit hook to enforce code standards before committing.

Steps:
Create a pre-commit hook:
Navigate to .git/hooks/ and edit pre-commit file.
Add a script (e.g.to check code formatting):
#!/bin/sh
black --check .
Make the hook executable:
chmod +x .git/hooks/pre-commit
Test the hook by committing changes.


10. Git Rebase
Objective: Understand how to use git rebase to integrate changes from one branch to another.
Scenario:
Create a feature branch, make commits, and rebase it onto the main branch.
Steps:

Create and switch to a feature branch:
git checkout -b feature
Make commits on the feature branch.
Rebase onto main:
git checkout main
git rebase feature-branch 

